most of the time the weather is it's
it's hot it's wicked hot and and and I
guess I mean sometimes you know
sometimes it's just like in the 90s and
I think you know it would it would get
upwards of like like a hundred hundred
and five hundred and ten depending on
the area there was one area was just
like a hundred and ten every day it's
right on the coast
ninety percent humidity it was just that
was terrible homes you're just
constantly sweating it was the worst but
the worst part about the whole thing is
even when you're not in an area that's
that hot
the humidity is just it's horrendous
like it's just ninety percent or a
hundred percent or I don't even know
what percentage is but it's just your
clothes are just always sticking to you
you're just like always feel like you're
sweating so it's pretty hot and you know
they say they have summer and winter
they have two seasons so it'll be like
oh yeah we're in winter but their winter
is the same exact temperature hot wise
like hotness wise but just rainy so it's
really like rainy and dry season because
it's just hot year-round but there's one
season where it just pours and dumps and
I've never been in rain like I was in El
Salvador you would be walking with my
companion and you'd hear like like what
let's start looking around like what is
that you like look behind you and
literally you'd see a wall of water like
coming towards you and so you just take
off running
you're just sprinting down the road with
your comp and and like it was so fun I
mean it was crazy it's super chaotic but
when it rains there it it dumps it dumps
and and they're there so there's I guess
like a couple cool stories as far as
like storms go one I just loved because
it just kind of like epitomizes for me
the way I felt about my mission so I had
a companion
his name was elder Hammond and he was
just like the man he's from Blackfoot
Idaho and I'm from Boise so like right
off the bat we're like yeah we're Idaho
boys like we were just gonna work
everyone into the ground and so we we
got together and we'd both been with
kind of tough companions beforehand it
was my second change in the mission
third change in the mission so we just
like ran every day like every day we're
just running from appointment to
appointment and she's talking with
everyone we could and we hardly knew
Spanish it was our third change his his
I think fourth or fifth anyway but he
was like my brother actually coined this
term when he told me about his mission
he was what my brother calls his he was
my girlfriend companion because every
time from then on out when I saw him my
heart would like skip a beat I'd be like
oh my gosh tell her go let's see Matt
zone conference right see him around the
mission I just I mean I just thought the
world of him I wanted to be like him you
know obviously I've already said I've
had a couple idols in the mission and
elder Hammond was just he was an
incredible missionary and so one night
it just started pouring and and we had
had a tropical rain or a tropical storm
warning and it was it was just pouring
in there they don't have like gutters or
really good drainage systems or anything
so it was just a cobbled stone dirt road
in this town little village thing that
we were in and so the water was like up
to our shins and it's just raging down
this street and it's like the main
street of this road because it was like
a village on the side of a hill and the
water is just pouring down gushing past
us and we had to go down and catch a bus
to go do a baptismal interview so we
it's just pouring we're sitting there we
don't have umbrellas you know there we
always every single day we kept our bags
inside of like two really really thick
plastic bags there are books like our
scriptures and stuff inside of our
backpacks so that if it rained because
like even in the middle of summer
sometimes you start pouring your books
wouldn't get ruined and so you know we
have our bags in our books but every
time you're just kind of like wait you
don't want your scriptures ruined cool
thing there is a one that cool thing it
can be annoying sometimes is only
assistants and zone leaders had cell
phones so district leaders in like
junior companions and normal
companionships didn't have cell phones
so like a lot of times when it would
rain you're just like well I have
nothing electronic like let's just go
so we take off down the street and at
first we're running and then we're like
you know what we're so like what the
heck are we doing running and so we
start walking and and the reason I said
at the beginning this epitomizes my
mission is just because we start walking
and we put our arms around each other
walking down the middle of the street
and there's all these people on either
side and their house is just kind of
like looking out like who are these two
gringos just rolling down the street in
the middle of the night in the pouring
rain and we just started singing called
to serve like in Spanish and I were
thinking this is exactly what I would I
pictured a mission being like tough hard
but the funnest thing I've ever done
like it was so cool and so fun and
people often equate their missions with
like the hardest two years of my life or
like the most challenging two years of
my life and I definitely agree to some
extent but the first word that comes to
mind for me was the funnest two years of
my life because I worked my tail off and
I'm and I don't have any regrets of my
mission I know I could have done things
better looking back now but I did
everything that I could the best that I
could you know I think that's all God
asks of you but it was so fun I mean
you'd get sick you get parasites you'd
be like oh this sucks feel like when am
I ever gonna have this again this is
awesome like Paul was having stuff like
this and Peter was getting his like face
kicked in it was just so cool I don't
know I just loved it